Mark, kindly pronounce your name for me once more, please.
Sure.
Mark Dimunation.
And just for my own interest, what's the origin of the surname?
Oh, it's Ukrainian.
It's Ukrainian?
Yeah.
Okay.
And we're here in the— We're in the Carl A. Kroc Library, and you're in the Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections.
And you were telling me that your responsibility
responsibilities, embrace all of the... I'm responsible for the printed book collections.
Okay.
But then you also, when I decided to put on a tape recorder, were mentioning that as you put more and more material up on the web... We're discovering that there's a new role as a curator, as a person who's responsible for putting forward materials, which the creation of a website is, in essence, an interpretation, a synthesis of material...
that then is described in a certain way, much more like a textbook, I would think, depending on how you exhibit or how you present as a curator.
Because of the nature of selectivity?
Selectivity, because you're interpreting the material, you're explaining what it is, you're explaining how it links to the other materials that you're also presenting as an image.
It's much less of a stand-back, objective presentation of the material.
And that's particularly the case when you start building websites.
They become illustrated monographs, and it's a very different kind of function.
Websites become illustrated monographs.
That's one way of looking at it.
They're not monographic in one very important way, which is the narrative is easily disruptive, is disrupted, and an individual...
can go in any number of directions, so it's not a linear narrative any longer, and yet you have to build an interpretation that works regardless which path the individual takes as they select certain aspects and move around in the website.
Can you give me an idea of numbers, of what you have under your... In terms of the collection?
Yeah.
The printed book collection now is about 300,000 volumes.
The manuscript collections, which
are under the curatorial control of two people.
There's a curator of manuscripts and the university archivist.
Together they hold about 75 million pieces of paper.
75 million pieces of paper.
And, of course, I'll be talking to the... You'll be talking to Elaine, and she can give you the actual linear footage.
But I'm just curious where you've indicated that Cornell is the leader in...
scanning these things.
Is there an effort, is there a project afoot to digitize everything, all this stuff?
No, I don't think that's a realistic target, I think.
We have over six million volumes here at Cornell.
And it costs approximately $5 a page.
Think of what you're talking about.
And I'm not sure if there's a computer around that.
I know it was a naive question, however, but so then we have to go back to selectivity.
Exactly.
And so how do we decide?
And one of the things that Cornell is certainly one of many institutions that are doing this.
It's just that in terms of the technology or the specifications for digitization, that's been a longstanding process.
concern on the part of the individuals that you'll be meeting tomorrow.
So value judgments are being made.
Precisely, and that's what I'm referring to in a way that we... That's kind of what I'm driving at.
Yeah, and it can be done in a variety of ways.
And several of the projects that you hear about when you talk to Anne will be a clue to that.
One is to cut across discipline for a certain time period as if you're representing a slice of
concerns across various subject matters.
So you look at the 1820s and you include economic material and material about domesticity and the cult of domesticity, and you include architectural plans and newspapers.
Or you can do a genre, as we would call it down here, a genre approach in which you digitize all the abolitionist newspapers, which we're not doing, but it's just an example.
Can you give me an example of something that you are?
Ezra Cornell's papers are being digitized.
There's a project that we participate in with other institutions called Making of America, which Ann Kenney is responsible for.
And that's looking at a certain time period of America, but looking at materials that relate to the building of the infrastructure of the United States.
Some of these are rather specific in terms of engineering, civil engineering, roads, bridges, but also the larger social and possibly political and cultural questions surrounding that, money, finance.
And once the items that you select are scanned and stored in computers, does that
Do you mean that you no longer have access to the scholar?
Is the scholar now using the material off the computer as opposed to the primary?
No, it's never meant to replace the—it depends on what project you're looking at.
Making of America is really looking at cooperative arrangements between institutions, and how do you define your collections, and how do you make them accessible to an audience that goes far beyond your physical territory.
and how do you develop a cooperative working arrangement with other institutions that still recognizes ownership and copyright and all of that sort of thing.
So some of the projects are specifically designed to look at how do we build bases of information that aren't necessarily uniquely tied to a single institution.
How do we share?
The scholar is still welcome here.
In this division, actually our approach to digitization is no different than the card catalog.
It just gives people access and a route to the original object.
It's just that they can do it 24 hours a day as opposed to waiting for the division to be open.
but it's never meant to replace it it's meant instead to give people a variety of ways of access to the material that they wouldn't normally have if you were doing this as a bibliographic description in your view the primary materials are still the sacred objects absolutely and everything we do they're not meant to replace they're really just meant to facilitate and there's a very good example that Elaine will show you tomorrow which is the Feuertes
website.
Fuerides was a naturalist illustrator much in the in a more scientific manner than F-U-E-R-T-E-S Fuerides as opposed to what you would think it is which is Fuerides.
That's why I wanted to kill myself on the transcription of it.
But Elaine will actually show you the site tomorrow.
Much in the vein of Audubon though he's claimed to be more scientific
We have his drawings, his field books, his papers, and his paintings here at Cornell.
All these have been photographed and digitized.
Although we have the Audubon material here, and we have the manuscript collection that deals with the census of Audubons, and we do have an elephant folio here.
But this is a much, much richer archival collection.
Simply digitizing that collection without providing an overlay of access doesn't do much for the person who's working with it.
You have to provide, or at least at a teaching institution, wants to provide an overlay of how do you get at this material, how do you organize it.
So you'll see tomorrow that it's possible on the Furedis site to search by species and families if you want to.
but the initial interface with it is in fact a map of the Harriman expedition in Alaska.
And the route is sketched out for you.
If you click anywhere on the route, it throws you into his journals for that area.
This is all designed here?
Yeah.
Any bird that he mentions in that date, Sitka, sketched the red-blue heron.
If you click on the hot-linked,
name of the bird, it will then show you every drawing he's made of that bird.
We'll see this tomorrow.
You'll see that tomorrow.
And this was designed by engineers?
Did you call them engineers?
What do you call these people?
Well, they're called a number of things.
We have positions here that are, and also up in preservation, that are referred to as digital archivists.
Oh, good.
I like that.
I love your name.
Well, actually, as I'm saying it, it's an interesting title because it's not quite sure.
It implies two different things.
One is an archivist who deals with digital information.
The other is somebody who archives digital information.
They're two different meanings.
And then there are people who are involved in website design.
Usually they're referred to as digital archivists, I think.
You might ask Tom about that.
How long has this program been in place here?
All this stuff.
I'm wondering if it's in Genesis, why Cornell?
Ann would better be able to give you the history of that.
It's been at least the last five years, probably more likely six.
You'll see Ann tomorrow.
Okay, good.
And it started originally with our relationships with certain corporations, Xerox and Kodak.
Which are not far from here, right?
Kodak is not far from here.
They're in Rochester, about two hours away.
And out of Kodak came something called CLIC.
The acronym, I think, means Kodak Library Image something or another.
Tom was the— Of course it makes perfect sense.
I mean, here they are.
And you say, why Stanford?
I mean, they're in the middle of Silicon Valley, you know?
Right.
So, and these projects are very different.
Xerox dealt with how do you take and type and convert it to a digital image?
What kind of specifications do you need in order to digitize a book?
Kodak was interested in digital images, or images being digitized, and how do you make them accessible?
Just, again, a naive question, but
How does all this support the curriculum?
Or is it relevant to the curriculum?
It's actually quite relevant.
There are a couple of projects.
Some of this on Stealing People's Thunder.
That's okay.
I can hear it twice.
An example would be a project that's referred to here as Utopia.
You're also giving me questions to ask people about it.
Utopia is an image database that's been developed on campus.
that deals with all Renaissance images across collections on campus.
Museum, the slide library, the book collections, and they are being cataloged with a variety of keyword access courses, buildings.
So it's possible for our students in the history of art
to go in and pull up thumbnail images and also full-scale JPEG images of materials available on campus, doing the kind of searching that you could never do in a paper environment, that you can't do in traditional computer cataloging.
In fact, it's very hard to do because they're located in four different places.
Now you sit down at a computer and call up all the images of Michelangelo or all of the Durer drawings
and engravings on campus.
Or you can call up all the images of the visitation or the Annunciation or all of the images that have animals in them on campus from the Renaissance.
And it creates an instant gathering of material that students can begin to work with that would really have literally not been possible without that kind of
Do you have a way to measure usage?
It's used in classes.
There are several classes that have assignments specifically geared to utopia.
Utopia.
Anything beyond the obvious reason for naming it?
There's no acronym.
It's just called utopia.
Perhaps it was a reference to our vision.
How long have you been here, Mark?
I've been here almost six years.
I came here from Stanford.
Oh, you did?
So you worked with Keller?
No, Keller came after me.
I was there in the David Weber years, and a man named Street was just stepping in when I left.
You mentioned when we talked on the phone that
You're involved in kind of a consortium with a number of other institutions.
Is that right?
In terms of digital projects?
In terms of digital projects.
Yes.
There are a couple that are going on at the moment.
One is MESL, and that's a combination of museums and libraries across the country.
How do you spell it?
M-E-S-L.
It's an acronym.
I was about to ask you.
Oh.
I love, I mean, I love tons of things.
Yeah.
You mentioned that on the phone.
But it was, there are more than a ton of things.
It's produced from Cornell, so I wanted to get a better sense of it.
I've got my car, so it's not a question of loading one airplane.
Last week was a trip coming back from, I think, John Cole loaded me down last week, too.
Tell me, just to switch, since it was John Linseth who directed me to you, and I'm delighted
that this happened.
Serendipity is just a wonderful thing.
Right.
Can you tell me briefly about John's collection and your hopes for that when it comes here?
Just talk in general a little bit about it and him.
John has a couple of major collections going on.
The Fables collection is his current passion, but he also has quite an impressive Alice collection.
Alison Wonderland collection, Lewis Carroll collection.
The Russian material that he's working on is connected to his fables collection.
He started off in collecting fables, as I understand it, in the more traditional fashion, but has since pushed his collection towards those areas and literatures that aren't necessarily reflected in other fable collections.
And so he's pulling in a lot of Hebraica
and a lot of Russian fables, and he's acquiring illuminated manuscript leaves of Bibles.
They purport to have fables.
Right, right.
He shows a couple of these.
This is his most recent thing.
Interesting.
Yeah, and it's quite an impressive collection.
Did you see it at all when you were at his house?
Selectively.
It's growing into quite a collection.
He's an alum of Cornell and is a great friend of the library.
He was one of the co-directors of the library's part of the capital campaign, which was a five-year campaign in which Cornell raised more money than any other institution in America has ever raised.
It's like $1.5 billion.
Cornell?
Cornell is routinely the highest...
Raises more money than any other institution on an annual basis.
How does that figure?
More than Harvard?
Yes.
That's a surprise.
And this year they just hit a record, which was... I've forgotten the figure.
It has to do with the atmosphere at Cornell, which, while Ivy League is also, because of its remoteness, creates a much tighter community so that alums have a very...
strong connection to Cornell.
That's reflected in giving.
You mentioned, and I didn't know this, that there are actually two elements for Cornell.
I mean, there's the Ivy League private kind of element, and then there's... Well, the whole institution is an Ivy League institution, but there are two aspects to the way in which Cornell is run and administered.
We are both an endowed and a statutory institution.
Which is, I would imagine, unique among the Ivy League.
I don't see—among Ivy League institutions?
I would think so, although I don't know about— You know, if they name one, that seems to come close.
Dartmouth, I was thinking of the ones that are up in the sticks, but they might have something like that.
Can't think of it.
So we're— We're— Yeah.
I think we might be unique in the Ivy League, certainly.
I don't know if we might be unique nationally in terms of that.
We're a land-grant institution.
Some of our money comes from the state of New York and the rest comes from... And that's specifically for agricultural-type things and innovation, the vet school as well.
The vet school, large animal research, agriculture, human ecology, some aspects of sociology and psychology.
There are departments that are in fact half and half, or in some cases duplicated, on campus due to the... certainly there's the ILR, the Industrial Labor Relations, School of Labor Relations, are all statutory.
The endowed is the medical college, the law, architecture,
Actually, it's architecture, art, and planning.
And then arts and sciences.
How would you—I certainly wouldn't want you to compare, you know, your special collections to sisters, Ivy League schools, but maybe you could just characterize your holdings in a general sense.
I mean, you gave me some numbers now—strengths, and what kinds of things are you actively acquiring?
Some of the strengths at Cornell will grow out of the history of its collection, which of course is not unique to most collections, have this beginning.
I would say we have a very solid teaching and instructional and rare book collection across the board, on top of which there are a fairly good number of great strengths, several of which are internationally prominent.
And those partly come from the story of how Cornell's collections were built.
Andrew Dixon White, and I'll give you a booklet about Andrew Dixon White as a book collector, is responsible for some of the major collections that are now great sort of steeples of excellence in terms of the collections.
His interest as a collector centered around the individual in opposition or in confrontation with institutions
grand historical events, the church.
And his collecting interests are reflected now in large sections of the rare book collection that include the French Revolution collection, which is purportedly the largest outside of Paris, and is quite an impressive collection.
I'm sorry, were these through gift or purchase, combination?
Andrew Dixon White gave his collection to Cornell University.
Andrew Dixon White was the first president of Cornell.
It has been layered since then by gifts, significant gifts, to those holdings, added to that French Revolution collection, which began as a documentary-style collection besides the major books.
White was interested in pamphlets, prints, newspapers, some of the fugitive material from the period.
But since then it has been added to by significant gifts.
Lavoisier's papers are at Cornell.
Lafayette's papers are at Cornell.
How did that happen?
They've been acquired through the gifts of friends who've made it possible for them to be purchased.
large segments of books from 18th century France have come in from several other donors that have been added to it because of the initial strength.
But you'd almost think of Lafayette's papers would be in France, wouldn't you?
Well, they were until they came to Cornell.
Cornell acquired... And you just pointed to a portrait of
of one of Lafayette's forerunners.
This is an 18th century portrait of a 15th century relative of Lafayette, the first marshal of France, who's painted in 18th century style, and came from Chavignac, which was Lafayette's estate that Cornell acquired.
There are bits of Lafayette throughout Cornell University.
That's Lafayette's clock.
There's another clock
in the reading room.
So we acquired the estate.
Well, it points to Lafayette's clock in his office.
Very nice.
What kind of clock is it?
Would you just—is there any different clock?
It's a standard gear and spring clock.
What's nice about it is that it has glass on the side so you can see the operation.
Does it work?
I am reluctant to find out.
I don't blame you.
And it's standing on a wood inlaid case that is original to the cloth.
Is it French?
It looks like it should be.
Yes, it is.
Sorry to jump around.
Lavoisier's papers is the same.
So this is a history of the development of certain subject strengths.
Another of the collections that has strong representation in the holdings is the anti-slavery collection.
Andrew Dixon White collected heavily in the Civil War.
He grew up in central New York.
His upbringing included a lot of exposure to abolitionists of the period, the Reverend Samuel May being the most significant for him.
After the war, when Cornell was a young institution,
William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, Samuel May, a couple of other abolitionists got together and wrote a circular letter to the friends of the movement telling them that this place called Cornell University was quite wisely documenting the abolitionist movement and would they please send pamphlets and papers and documentation so that this rich tradition can be guaranteed.
So a very early kind of contemporary collecting was going on at Cornell, and out of it is the anti-slavery collection, which includes William Lloyd Garrison's copy of The Liberator, large pamphlet collections from Samuel May, papers from the Freedmen's Association, Lydia Maria Child's papers, all of which pulled together as a very, very strong documentation on the anti-slavery movement.
Andrew Dixon White also collected probably the leading collection on witchcraft, European witchcraft.
And that's a separate collection actually here.
Documenting the religious controversy, the doctrinal controversy, the Inquisition, and demonologists and penologists all the way up to the controversy in England.
It doesn't deal with the United States or the colonies.
In terms of acquisitions, I have
What kinds of things are you buying?
Currently, I do have obligations to continue certain collections given their comprehensiveness.
The Dante and Petrarch collections, both of which were started by Willard Fisk.
That's F-I-S-T-E.
The first university librarian.
And another great book collector from Cornell.
His collecting actually was very different from Andrew Dixon White.
So we have this interesting combination of, on the one hand, an historian's view of collecting.
That's Andrew Dixon White was an historian before he became a university president and before he became a diplomat.
Willard Fiske, on the other hand, collected extremely comprehensively and very much more in the fashion of a bibliophile.
So he collected an extremely significant Dante collection, all editions, all printings.
And the same for Petrarch, which is also here, and the Icelandic collection, the Fisk Icelandic collection, which interestingly, and you'll talk to Tom about this, is the focus of digital activity.
And there's a certain project being developed now that will ultimately lead to
digitizing a good section of the Icelandic national literature.
And this is another version of what Cornell is spending much of its time dealing with, which is how you construct these projects.
You meet with Tom at lunch and then at the end of the day on tomorrow.
Which is how do you develop these kinds of projects.
In this case, it's between a country and a university.
And our collection, the Fisk-Icelandic collection, is probably after Iceland and Copenhagen, certainly the strongest in North America.
So it's an effort between these two entities to come together and create a universe of information that exceeds both of our... And what are the two entities?
Iceland itself.
The country of Iceland, yes.
We are dealing with...
the Minister of Culture and the Ambassador and the National Library.
You're actually going to create something that they don't have.
We'll be creating something that none of us have, which is... Yes, exactly.
Probably both have it, I assume.
And the difference is that Willard, we have very little manuscript material in the Icelandic collection that comes from Willard Fisk's specific notion that you are...
robbing cultural heritage when he removed manuscripts from the country.
So he never collected manuscripts when he collected Icelandic material.
Really?
Did he articulate it?
Yes.
This was Fisk.
So Fisk is Dante, Petrarch, and Iceland, or the Icelandic collection.
I could say Dante and Petrarch.
I don't see how he got interested.
Well, it's a variety of stories behind it.
Some of his interest had to do with language and saga, and Iceland is a perfect example of an island nation whose language is locked within a certain period of time, free of the more Teutonic influences that you find in Europe.
He's the first collector I've ever heard of, ethically opposed to acquiring manuscripts from a country.
I mean, usually they could care less.
driven to acquire the material.
I've never heard of a collector who was so highly ethical about it.
He is highly revered in Iceland, Willard Fisk is.
He's on a postage stamp as a collector, yes.
As a collector?
Well, as an individual he is recognized.
I should make sure that you talk to Patrick Stevens, who is the curator of the Fisk Icelandic Collection.
Okay.
But well recognized in Iceland as an important individual.
What were his approximate years?
Willard Fisk?
Yeah.
Well, he's contemporary to Andrew Dixon White, so it's the late 19th, early 20th century.
Actually, mid-19th.
When the stuff was readily available.
Right, right.
And he could have acquired the manuscripts, probably.
I suspect so, but he specifically avoided them.
Yes, it is unusual.
It also explains why a good deal of his money wasn't spent on acquiring leaves of Dante manuscripts, for example.
He spent his time acquiring the printed Dante and the printed Petrarch, although we do have a few manuscripts.
So he seems to be a little bit more specific about Iceland.
He had left of a reserve about Western Europe for some reason.
So those are also collections that are of great strength.
The history of science collections have their own story
Cornell has strength in ornithology and a variety of natural history.
The medical collections are actually in New York, where Cornell Medical School is in New York City.
Do you have jurisdiction over any of the New York City materials?
It is part of the university library, but I don't have jurisdiction over the rare materials that are there, no, other than as a sort of colleague.
That's irrelevant.
But it does explain the nature or the lacunae in the history of science collections here, since that topic is not collected on this campus because we've collected in the United States.
I have a hard time seeing how anybody could have bad feelings about this stuff, you know?
I mean, regardless of where your attitude is about books and libraries of the future and— Bad feelings about what stuff?
About digital technology?
I think if it's held up as a panacea of some kind, or if it's held up as a solution, or as some educators and administrators have said, this is, you know, why build more buildings because everything's going to be digitized in ten years, so this space is no longer a concern.
Right, right.
Then I can see why people would be uncomfortable with it.
Cornell has just developed an approach to it that sees it as a tool to getting you back to the original materials.
So we incorporate it into our classroom presentations.
That's done here.
That's done in the reference department at Cornell.
They build websites for individual classes now at Cornell so that all the information and all the links are put up.
Are these readily accessed over the Internet?
Yes.
I can punch into these things on my computer?
Yes, to the website.
To the library website, and then you can go down into the Divisions website.
You can look at exhibits.
The exhibit that's up right now is also on the web, for example.
What's your policy on deaccessioning things?
Are you deaccessioning things?
From the book collections?
Yeah.
We do not deaccession...
We have duplicates, but I don't deaccession materials that are unique to the collections.
There are gifts that come in that duplicate the holdings, general duplicates.
If we're not in a field or a period of time in which valiant is an important question, which in this collection would be early printing or certain aspects of literature,
then I'll swap for better copy.
Those duplicates are sold.
But I've been here six years, and we've yet to sell them.
So you leave that open as an option that you have yet to exercise.
Right, right.
We do not have copy 12 of certain things, except in things like the Wordsworth collection.
We have Wordsworth manuscripts here, the ones that are not at Dove's Cottage.
And we have a relationship, actually, with Dove's Cottage, so that we have copies of each other's manuscripts.
The Wordsworth Collection has multiple imprints, but they're really not duplicates.
They're really issue-state variants.
The George Bernard Shaw papers are here, and the Shaw Book Collection also has large numbers of duplicate copies for the same reason.
But in general, this is a teaching and research-oriented collection.
and so we will select materials out based on that.
But we don't have subject limits because we are a research library, so I don't deaccession materials because the topic is no longer of interest or that sort of thing.
So my collecting area is pretty broad.
So if the hook is to say, well,
Somebody gives you a great collection of Alice in Wonderland books, for instance.
This is just an example.
And there's no course that teaches Alice in Wonderland here, let's say.
I'm really not trying to make an example of John's books, but I'm just throwing that out as a... Oh, here's Tom.
This is Thomas Hickerson, the director of the division.
This is Nicholas Basbane.
Good to meet you.
We'll have plenty of opportunity to talk later behind this one to...
stop by and welcome you.
Thank you.
It's a pleasure to be here.
Mark is doing a very thorough introduction.
I have him totally confused at this point, so you can clarify.
You can be the voice of clarity, Tom.
I've set you up well.
Well, I try to seize those opportunities.
That wouldn't be an occasion to say, well, gee, we have no use for this stuff.
Let's swap it for something else that might be more
I think the fact that it's hard to think of a topic where we would say that to somebody is probably an indication.
Well, I mean, I've heard it said, you know, Howard Gottlieb at Boston University said, well, generally speaking, the rule is it has to in some way support the curriculum, you know, material that you require.
This is a good example at Cornell.
We have probably the preeminent Dante collection in North America.
Stanford probably at this point now having the second largest collection.
And depending on what decade you're looking at Cornell, there are no Dantesca scholars.
Would that lead one to the accession of the collection because it doesn't support the curriculum?
One of the great strengths of Cornell University.
So I don't view my collecting for program in that vein.
And it's now being well served.
I think the recent trends in literary theory and what people were referring to as the new historicism opens up an entirely different use of rare materials or special collections materials that one would not have been able to forecast 15 years ago.
Materials that we would have seen as mere examples of popular literature are now, of course, perfect examples of reception of text
cultural transmission of text over time, the filtering down of texts.
And these materials, which may not have supported the formal academic program, are now exactly the evidence that researchers would use.
And it would have been a real crime had they been, a real shame had they been deaccessioned.
So there's really no policy here for removing.
We're building a collection, not paring it down.
There are also materials that come to light when other materials are brought in.
An example of which is that in this division we are also, down the hall from me is the curator of the Human Sexuality Collection, which is largely an archival collection, documents cultural and the social and cultural politics of sexuality.
Started with a gift of papers from
David Goodstein, who was the publisher of The Advocate, it brought in other large organizations, includes thousands of magazines and videotapes and pulp fiction, but also includes archives of political organizations.
Pulp paperbacks.
We're talking pornography?
Some of it's pornography, some of it's softcore.
But the introduction of that material into the collection now gives a completely different view to late 19th century English holdings.
And it prompts one to go back and make sure that sexologists have been documented properly, that the links between the decadence movement through the 20s in America through the late 20th century is now a linkage in the collection that you wouldn't have seen without this material.
some of those materials were here, even though they might have seemed extraneous to a formal academic program.
Who acquired them?
The materials that were already here?
Some of them are incidental sidelines to more traditional canonical authors.
Some of them come in because they're part of a small series of chapbooks, because they were printed by Virginia Woolf, or
because they've come in with other people's papers, because they've come in with libraries.
So they've been culled and assembled in a collection.
And are sitting on the shelf and waiting for a connection to them.
Are they used?
Oh, yes.
It's a very heavily used collection, all total, and especially at Cornell with an extremely strong English department.
Certainly one of the better-ranked ones in the country, if not the rank.
Shakespeare is still required in the English department?
There are certainly a good number of Shakespeare courses.
I'm doing a presentation for one of them next week.
I just thought, I did interview with Scott Turow last week.
I certainly have the new book.
I haven't... The Highbrow Lowbrow?
Exactly, yeah.
I have actually seriously thought about getting in touch.
He's out of Berkeley, I think, right?
He was at Berkeley.
He was
George Mason is where he is now.
Yes, he's no longer at Berkeley.
He's on the East Coast.
He moved over when he won the MacArthur.
Right.
I think he then went back, but I saw him recently attributed to be someplace else as well, not Berkeley.
I think he was in Virginia someplace.
Yeah.
He was closing the store.
Well, yeah, and it's been about six, seven, eight years.
I can't believe I agree with it.
Well, it's sort of the beginning of this interest in readership and reception and transmission in a very different way.
So I don't know if Shakespeare is required, but it's certainly, there are a number of courses that... And I'm sure that I should... Right.
There's certainly a number of courses that continue to use it.
Now, how it uses Shakespeare may vary, but that's... That's something I could address to the English departments for my perspective.
When you mentioned, you know, the new historicism and other such movements, are you influenced by these critical movements in terms of acquisition and acquiring things?
Since one of my primary charges is to build a collection that supports the academic program, yes.
The difficulty in our work is
is keeping a constant thread going so that you're not developing a collection that is a roadmap of fads that start and stop along the way.
Has that happened?
It can happen.
It hasn't yet, in my mind, in terms of the collections, because we're adding to certain strengths already.
So, for example...
Most of my 19th century literature collecting now, some of this is rather obvious and routine for most institutions, is that I'm looking at second-rung authors in Victorian literature, largely women, and that I'm collecting them in a variety of editions so that people can see how that text filters down to a popular reading audience.
Any authors come reading them tonight?
Well, it's a large number of...
of Victorian women authors in particular, some of whom are only one or two book authors, Bithya Croker, who also neatly ties into an interest at Cornell, which is post-colonialism and literature.
How do these authors and these books come to your attention?
From the faculty?
From, in large, at least in part, through the fact that we are
as a division, extremely involved, heavily involved with instruction and teaching on campus.
We do a large number of presentations for courses on campus, well over a hundred a year.
No kidding?
Yeah.
So you just mentioned you're doing something for Shakespeare.
Of course.
And this is more than half of our readership here is undergraduates.
So such a presentation will be what?
You'll have slides of
no no no we bring them into the we bring them into the seminar room yeah and it's content oriented often times it is not a dog and pony in the sense that I don't spend when I'm dealing with Arthurian legend I don't spend a lot of time talking about Caxton other than to identify him as a printer but instead talk about how this particular piece fits into the larger arc of how that literature has been subject to cultural change and political nuance
and how representation of Arthur over time can be seen by looking at original materials from different contexts.
And those presentations go on here quite regularly.
And you have the books for Arthur.
Yes.
Just to continue that example.
So I start with, in this case, I started with secular medieval manuscripts, so we can talk about how text is... Which you have.
Yes, which we have.
I'll move into the introduction of printing and Western culture so that we can then look at the early editions of Arthurian legend, Chaucer, and then follow it through time in various renditions so that we can look at illustrations.
You can look at how the language changes so that their paperbacks are the culmination of a very long story so that when they leave this room,
And they'll have a sense of what it looked like at a particular period of time and its context.
We do a lot of freshman writing programs here.
Cornell is one of those institutions that has a mandatory writing program for all incoming students.
And it's a subject-oriented device so that students are gathered together, you read within a common subject matter, and then you write based on that.
And we do presentations for them
Now, when you say we, you mean the rare books division.
Well, the division here includes rare books, manuscripts, history of science, the Icelandic collection, human sexualities.
It is interesting.
Maybe it happens elsewhere, but I've not heard of it, where the rare books usually are quite apart from the undergraduate experience.
Oh, I think it is certainly a primary focus here.
We might be more ambitious.
about it than other institutions.
So you really do encourage the undergraduate to come and... We're trying to place ourselves as the central part of the library for undergraduate and graduate education.
See, that's wonderful.
And much of our work is geared toward that.
And where does this originate from?
It came partly out of the merger of this division.
The Division of Rare Manuscript Collections grew up out of four separate departments.
I came to Cornell as the head of the department of rare books.
The other three were archives and manuscripts, but literary and medieval manuscripts were always in rare books.
The history of science collections, which grew out of the specifications of the particular donor in which the history of science materials were pulled out of the rare book collection and they created their own history of science collection and the Icelandic collection.
We pulled all of them together
We restructured.
When this building was built, we moved in.
And our approach has changed fairly significantly.
The building was designed to allow us to be an active member of the teaching community.
And we built our programs around that.
So public services and public access is probably the primary preoccupation of people in this division.
Were you going to show me something?
Yes, I want to take you to the vault, actually, so you have a chance to see the building.
We're in a rear book.
What do we call this, the rear book room?
Vault.
And you're saying that you see... It's actually a vault for a manuscript.
Okay.
And you said you shelve according to size.
Right.
And we have five shelving locations, size locations for books.
Tiny, which is less than 16 centimeters.
A regular, which is in quarto.
Um...
single plus, double plus, triple plus, quadruple plus.
Are they shelved by subject?
They're shelved according to the Library of Congress classification, but there are collections that are shelved independent of the general rare book collection.
They're often referred to as the special collections, and that includes the Dante, the Petrarch, the Shaw, the Witchcraft, and the Wordsworth collections, History of Science,
also has a general history of science collection, but there are several named collections.
Those are mostly due to donor specifications.
The Hill Collection, the same hill that you find in San Diego, for example.
The Adelman Collection, a couple of others in the history of science as well.
So it's a fairly complicated vault, five different shelving locations for each possible named collection.
And you were saying before I put on the machine that
The nature of these stacks is such that you know it's— One would have thought when we left the old rare book vault, you're used to being able to locate material by walking up and down the aisle and just spotting books.
And there was some fear on my part, although I understood the advantage of going to compact shelving, but just sort of a cultural familiarity.
I was afraid of not being able to see my books.
But we don't allow browsing in the rare bunglebee.
No, it makes perfect sense.
It's just for the staff in terms of whether they were happy with it or not.
But actually what it's led to is a much greater familiarity of the collections.
And if you watch people paging books for classes, for example, they're punching buttons with the same kind of knowledge about what aisle to go into as if the aisles were open.
So you actually have a much better sense of your collections even though you can't see the books.
in a much more... But to get in here, you have everything... These are in stations.
There are fixed shelves.
This is fully computerized.
And in between are about eight or nine units.
And so to move them... So it's possible to run eight different aisles at the same time.
Are these designed for Cornell?
These are...
They were modified for Cornell to meet our shelving specifications.
So these are items that are available.
Yes.
This is Montel Shelving, which is a French-Canadian firm.
We're French firm.
I think French-Canadian.
We've had no problems with it whatsoever.
It's smooth.
It doesn't lurch.
It's beautiful.
It reacts when you want it to.
It has a built-in feature at the end of the day in which all the shelves move apart equidistant from each other so that everything can breathe overnight, so they're not locked away.
And that's done automatically.
That's done automatically.
And it allows a very immediate access to the collection.
Remember all these big folios standing?
Yeah, yeah.
The flat folios are shelved in the fixed shelving units where the motor is actually.
Do you have any pictures of this stuff?
Actually, there's a photograph in the brochure, I think.
Quite a nice contrast.
I'm sure there are incunables in here.
Yeah, there are incunables everywhere here.
Actually, what is going on here that these are all... This is probably part of... Yes, this is part of the French Revolution project, which also included conservation of all the materials.
So part of going through the French Revolution collection was to take all the freestanding pamphlets that are scattered about
deacidify them, put them into passive bindings, retaining the original sewing, so if it's stab sewn, we retain it, and redoing the bindings.
All this work is done here?
All this work is done by John Dean's operation.
That's quite impressive.
It's worthy of a fine bindery, isn't it?
And these are cranked.
Cranked out downstairs.
Just cranked out.
And those poor kids did 18,000 French pamphlets all in those pale blue papers.
I'm sure they're quite sick of that color by now.
But, you know, I'm quite lucky as a curator.
It's unusual to find a rare book vault that can look like this consistently.
It's so immaculate, too, I have to say.
Well, that's one of my particular things.
All right.
I saw the collections run all the way down to about the middle of the vault.
And you told me earlier how many printed books you have?
About 300,000 printed volumes.
And they're largely all down here?
All the printed collections are in the vault.
Right here.
A good portion of the archival collections are in remote storage, those that are lesser used.
The advantage also of coming into the building is you can design your shelving to meet your needs, so the Audubon has its own shelving.
These are the Audubon's four volumes.
And this is all part of the Hill collection, the Ornithology collection.
Whose was this?
This must have come as a gift at some point.
Yes, it did.
That's all right.
I better verify that.
They didn't belong to me when I first came here.
They've come to me from the History of Science collection.
Ah, well.
Someone who speaks better of it.
We're looking at several million dollars' worth of books, easily.
Here?
No, just those four.
Just those four.
I was going to say, this wall.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Just those four, I mean.
No, no, no.
I was talking about one, two, three, four, five.
Yeah.
When we want to expand, this is apropos of the accessioning question.
This is the sort of dead poet's corner.
This will give you a sense of, I think we probably have now the world's largest collection of Lafayette busts.
All lying...
supine on the shelves.
We're in the middle of an NEH project on Icelandic.
We're converting an old classification scheme to a new one and putting them online.
This is as a prelude to the digital project that Saganet, that we were developing, and so this is part of that project going on right now as we speak.
No, no, you're fine.
You're fine.
Asia Rare is also shoved down here.
One of the necessities of
Moving was to create an arrangement of manuscripts where everything was numbered and rare.
Barcoded.
Barcoded for circulation with an inventory location as well so that we know where they sit on the shelf at all times.
Kroc Library, file 224, face number A, shelf number three, position A.
I've actually devised a shelving system dissimilar to that for my own books at home because I have books in them.
It's actually a very old English system.
Well, it works.
Yeah, you just call it something.
Downstairs Library, Case 1, Shelp 3.
It's no different than working in any of the reference rooms in Oxford.
We're all based on that.
Look at all the Lafayette stuff.
Lafayette is a very interesting story.
That's huge.
The Joyce collection is equally impressive that way.
Tom Staley would love to have that, wouldn't he?
I'm not sure.
I haven't asked him that.
I'm sure he would.
I'm just teasing.
Anything, Joyce, you can just assume.
You count up a number of people who own notebooks from the first draft of Ulysses, which Cornell has, but there are other institutions that have them as well.
This would be one interesting jigsaw puzzle.
And in fact, I think this would be ultimately, this would be the penultimate digital project.
Get all these institutions to agree that we will all digitize our Joyce notebooks and put them up as a single publication on the web.
Now, why do you think they would not agree to... No, because they're such prized possessions.
We spent a lot of... In Texas in particular.
In Texas in particular, exactly.
I mean, anyway, the literature Xerox or...
We're not based on that model.
We do the photocopying for people that we do photocopy.
We're really much more involved, I think, in a research and instructional mode than other institutions will be.
We're fairly generous with the materials, too, within the reason of conservation.
You can tell when we move into the archival section that the shelving changes to four-posts as opposed to cantilever, and it's designed to accommodate
through boxes across.
The same compact shelving that's now moving tons of paper.
It's very impressive.
And they just glide along.
Have you seen the Harvard Depository setup?
We're actually, the remote storage thing, we're mimicking that here at Cornell, the one with the huge tower.
They're currently breaking ground for that right now.
The next remote storage is based on that same system here.
and is being built to environmental specifications for rare books and manuscripts, so we can send materials there.
The goal so far has been not to let the books go out, because archival materials tend to travel a little bit more safely.
And Harvard does keep its archival stuff at the outside.
So ours has been based on usage.
If a collection is called in too often, we actually exchange it with something else involved.
So we do have flexibility because we're online.
As they do as well, actually.
It's called for, then they'll leave it in Cambridge.
Right.
So the difference is that ours is only at the edge of the apple with orchards on campus, it's not on the other.
They share space with the primate center.
They have monkeys on one side and books on the other.
Don't think I'm not going to get that into the next book, one way or another.
And you can have a sense of, I'm sorry, I'm trying very hard to meet the Harvard standards, but I just don't think I can match that.
More examples of John Dean's work.
We have the ability, we're very fortunate here, as curators, we can send materials to conservation and they come back immediately in boxes.
So these are actually fan-fold manuscripts from the Asia Rare collection.
many of which are paper mache with bits of water glass and very nicely boxed so that we can deal with our materials intelligently.
Second part of the vault?
I'm sorry.
Yes, which is on the mezzanine level, but it's the very top floor.
It's a half level.
And that holds all the flat material, mostly map cases.
Actually, this is a perfect example of what I was just telling you about.
These are trucks that are left over from presentations from last week.
This is a course called Cornell 101, which deals with the history of the university.
And that's the charter of the university.
Yes, the actual charter of the university.
This was a course on... This was a presentation to the Board of Trustees, which included...
an overview of how we use materials in the instruction program.
And these are largely maps and charts.
Well, actually, this also includes the Gettysburg Address, the Emancipation Proclamation, and the Thirteenth Amendment, all in the original documents, and original manuscript.
Le Brasier's notebook for the discovery of the formula for water.
Which you're holding in your hands right now.
And signed by LaFosse and the major scientists of the period.
These are the Joyce notebooks.
Ah.
The reason they're free like this is that... That's a little tactile kick for me.
This is from the Norisica chapter of Ulysses.
So this was a very high-end discussion for the Board of Trustees that included a variety of materials for a portfolio.
Cornell has all... And as we speak, they're on these little trucks.
They're meant to be reshelled.
They're on the way to be reshelled.
We're looking at precious items in a...
That's wonderful.
This was the freshman course on the Arthurian legend in Chaucer.
It includes Mallory, Nuremberg Chronicle, medieval manuscripts as examples, chain book.
Where's the chain book?
The chain book is actually right here.
Still have a chain on it?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, that's great.
Fabulous, isn't it?
Yeah, that's wonderful.
I've only seen one other.
My first.
Is that right?
Yeah, my first.
I've had three collections.